# Conceptual Design: 3D Point Cloud Enhancement for On-the-Fly 3D Printer Control
## Description
To 3D print on a dynamic surface, a six-axis robotic arm utilizes a high frequency depth and color camera to create an RGBD 3D point cloud of the surface to be printed on. This allows the printer to observe the shape change of the surface for a period of time and use that data to predict the shape of the surface at the time of the next point it needs to print using a RNN algorithm. However, this workflow faces some challenges due to the variation in quality of the 3D point clouds produced by the camera. As the camera is high frequency, it is inherently low resolution. Additionally, the camera produces point clouds that are particularly noisy in the vertical direction and the camera is incapable of filling in all differently colored areas of the surface given specific lighting and exposure settings. Therefore, in order to perform more precise control of the printer a pipeline for denoising, completing, and upsampling 3D point clouds will be created in this project. Most of the datasets and ideas explored here to carry out these tasks come from this [review article](https://arxiv.org/html/2411.00857v1#bib.bib32).

## Datasets
Vast collections of datasets, including both synthetic and real-world objects, exist tailored toward training models to carry out each of the three enhancement goals (denoising, completing, and upsampling). As the application is focused on interacting with real-world objects, datasets composed of real-world objects will be the focus, however, it is a concern that the main area of application for this printer (printing on a beating heart) will be too far outside the scope of the objects included in these databases. Some examples of datasets containing real-world objects and ground truth pairs considered for these goals are: [denoising](https://wang-ps.github.io/denoising.html), [completing](https://github.com/yushuang-wu/SCoDA) (synthetic objects), and [upsampling](https://github.com/hkust-vgd/scanobjectnn). These datasets are all very large and can be broken into sections for training and validation. The data for testing the model will come from conducting scans with the robotic arm printer.

## Denoising
Most work completed in the denoising of PCDs involve supervised methods that either focus on refining point locations or surface normals of the point clouds. Point-based methods either estimate the displacement of noisy points needed to rectify the model, estimate the true surface from the noisy points and resample points on it, or employ gradient ascent. Normal-based methods tend to be more precise and focus on refining the surface normals and then adjusting the points to match. Other techniques offer a combination of both or incorporate layered information to address local and global shape. Unsupervised techniques rely on having high density PCDs to extract the underlying surface and tend to struggle with fine detail.

## Completion
Object-level PCD completion typically rely on point-based or image-assisted strategies. One-stage point-based techniques estimate characteristics from the input to generate a complete PCD. Meta-point-based techniques extract global geometric features during learning to approximate the PCD and then use local geometry to refine it. Deformation-based methods iteratively update a complete point cloud to match the input PCD shape. Image-assisted strategies use a single view image of the object to provide more information for the completion. This technique is of interest for the current project, as the camera takes an image during the creation of the PCD.

## Upsampling
Upsampling can largely be broken into two different areas, embedded space and 3D Euclidean space. The 3D Euclidean space techniques seem to be more applicable to this application, as they operate by adding more points into the Euclidean space instead of manipulating feature vectors in latent space. Two main categories in this area include refinement-base and surface-reconstruction-based techniques. Refinement-based techniques augment existing points, but generate points with imprecise locations (which necessitates further processing). Surface-reconstruction-based methods estimate the underlying surface in the sparse point cloud first and then adds additional points. 

## Metrics
In order to evaluate these methods, various metrics to compare PCDs can be utilized. The chamfer distance is the distance between each point in one set and the nearest point to that point in the other set. The Hausdroff distance evaluates the greatest of all the distances from a point in one point cloud to the closest point in the other point cloud. Point-to-face and point-to-mesh distances evaluate the distance from points to an underlying surface or mesh. The normalized uniformity coefficient evaluates the distribution of points across designated areas on an object’s surface. 

## Conclusion
It is unknown whether completing a pipeline of point cloud enhancement capable of all three goals is within the scope of the project, however, at the very least one goal will be implemented. All three goals can likely be implemented in series by combining existing open-source methods, but as they have overlapping techniques and ideas it may be possible to implement them simultaneously. It is currently thought that unsupervised methods of each goal should be the focus, as the intend application should be adaptable to unforeseen environments. However, for specific application scenarios ground truth models can be provided for supervised techniques if necessary.
